# Example Problem: Partitioned heat conduction

This is an example problem to qualify Data communication of data communication developed in the adapter. Refer to [the preCICE tutorials](https://github.com/precice/tutorials/tree/master/partitioned-heat-conduction) for a detailed explanation of the case.

# Contents of this folder

* `Coupler_Solver.F90`: The source code for the actual adapter.
* `precice-config.xml`: A preCICE configuration for explicit coupling.
* `precice-adapter-config-N.json`: A modified FEniCS adapter configuration file.
* Three folders (`Reference_Problem/`, `Dirichlet_Participant/` or `Neumann_Participant/` one for each case):
    * `case.sif`: This is the system input file generated by ElmerGUI(or written by hand), to be fed to `ElmerSolver` together with the mesh files to run the simulation.
    * `<Mesh_Name>.geo`: This is the gmsh file to build geometry and generate the `.msh` file that defines mesh.
    * `<Mesh_Name>.msh`: This is the `.msh` file for ElmerSolver. It can be generated from the `.geo` file using gmsh, but it is provided in this repository for convenience

# Build the adapter

The adapter is called during runtime by Elmer, it is developed as user defined code provided by Elmer features, so it has to be built before running the simulation. For building, Elmer provides a FORTRAN wrapper to make sure that code compiled by the user is compatible with `ElmerSolver`. Make sure that preCICE is correctly installed and linked, when building the adapter (see [here](https://precice.org/installation-source-installation.html)).

To compile the adapter, run `elmerf90 -o <Output File Name> <Fortran File> --additional-flags`. For this example: run `elmerf90 -o Coupler_Solver.so Coupler_Solver.F90 -lprecice` from this folder. This will create the actual adapter binray `Coupler_Solver.so` that will be used by Elmer to couple the code.

# Running the example

The example is provided in three different versions: A reference case, where the problem is solved monolithically and a Dirichlet and Neumann solver, which can be used for computing either side of the domain. For all three cases the same steps must be executed:

1. Go To `Reference_Problem/`, `Dirichlet_Participant/` or `Neumann_Participant/` - depending on what you want to do.
2. Generate mesh: type `ElmerGrid 14 2 <Mesh_Name>.msh`.
3. Run the simulation: type `ElmerSolver case.sif`. For the monolithic case you only need to run a single processes. For the partitioned case you have to run two processes in independent terminals.
4. Visulaize results: results are stored in the results folder (`out`) and may be visualized using Paraview.

**Hint** Results in other examples not necessarily exist in Results folder, the location can be modified in `.sif` file.

## Running the Coupled simulation for Elmer-Elmer coupling

This scenario uses two independent Elmer simulations. One for the Dirichlet participant, one for the Neumann participant. Follow the steps above for `Dirichlet_Participant` and `Neumann_Participant`.

## Running the Coupled simulation for Elmer-FEniCS coupling

**IMPORTANT** A change is required in `Coupler_Solver.F90`. See the function `CopyWriteData`. The required change is highlighted in the comments.

**RESTRICTION** This case only works, if the Elmer solver is the Dirichlet participant and the FEniCS solver is the Neumann participant.

### Preparation
Copy the `fenics` case from [the preCICE tutorials](https://github.com/precice/tutorials/tree/master/partitioned-heat-conduction) into this folder (`Partitioned_Heat_Conduction/`) (tested for https://github.com/precice/tutorials/tree/v202104.1.1). This should result in the following folder structure:

```
Partitioned_Heat_Conduction/
├── Coupler_Solver.F90
├── Coupler_Solver.so
├── Dirichlet_Participant
│   └── ...
├── fenics (new folder!)
│   ├── ... (everything from the tutorials)
├── Neumann_Participant
│   └── ...
├── precice-config.xml
├── README.md
└── Reference_Problem
    └── ...
```

Then, install all dependencies that are required for running the FEniCS-FEniCS partitioned heat conduction case.

**IMPORTANT**

* Please replace `fenics/precice-adapter-config-N.json` with the modified `precice-adapter-config-N.json` from this folder.
* Comment out the error check `assert (error_total < total_error_tol)` in `fenics/errorcomputation.py`.

### Running the Elmer-FEniCS case

Follow the steps described above for running `Dirichlet_Participant/`. Run the FEniCS participant as a Neumann solver following the instructions [in the preCICE tutorials](https://github.com/precice/tutorials/tree/master/partitioned-heat-conduction).

# Detailed explanation (for advanced users and developers)

## Mesh preparation

### Generating .msh File (optional)

The `.geo` file defines the geometry and the mesh generator using gmsh, it definies the 2x2 Plate and its 3 boundaries it can be open using gmsh,just make sure that gmsh is installed and run at the current directory. The mesh is a uniform rectangular mesh, you can adjust its size but changing the number of points on the lines using a text editor.

These steps are required if the user wants to create a `.msh` file, gmsh software is required, open the `.geo` in gmsh by running the command `gmsh <FileName>.geo`. You can also refer to (this tutorial)[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O1FyiBBuN98&ab_channel=JoshTheEngineer].

### Generating Mesh Files for Elmer (required)

The mesh created by gmsh `.msh` has to be processed by Elmer to be usedful at the later steps. Elmer offers two ways to create preprocess the mesh:

* using ElmerGrid: just type `ElmerGrid 14 2 Reference_Problem_grid.msh -out Reference_Problem_Mesh` and the mesh files will be generated in a seperate folder under same name
* using ElmerGUI: open the `msh` file in `ElmerGUI`, define the problem, save the project and generate the `.sif` file, the mesh files will be generated in the location defined in the model/setup under MeshDB parameter. For more information please refer to the [ElmerGUI Tutorials](http://www.nic.funet.fi/pub/sci/physics/elmer/doc/ElmerTutorials.pdf).